GH-40551: [Release][Docs] Improve documentation for patch Release process (#40552)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/release.rst

automatically be used by our merge script as the new version for issues closed when
the maintenance branch is created.

Patch Releases
==============

We usually create patch releases once a major breaking issue has been identified.
Issues that are identified as major breaking issues can be security fixes, broken packages
for specific builds and others.

Any developer can ask for a patch release to be generated sending an email to the
`Arrow development mailing-list <https://arrow.apache.org/community/>`__ with the reason
of why a new release is necessary.
If there is consensus and there is a Release Manager willing to take the effort to create
the release a patch release can be created.

Committers can tag issues that should be included on the next patch release using the

> `backport-candidate` label. Is the responsability of the author or the committer to add the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`backport-candidate` label. It is the responsibility of the author or the committer to add the
```

label to the issue to help the Release Manager identify the issues that should be backported.

If a specific issue is identified as the reason to create a patch release the Release Manager
should validate that, at least, this issue is correctly tagged and included in the patch release.

Be sure to go through on the following checklist:

#. Create milestone
#. Create maintenance branch
#. Include issue that was requested as requiring new patch release
#. Add new milestone to issues with `backport-candidate` label
#. cherry-pick issues into maintenance branch

Creating a Release Candidate
============================

These are the different steps that are required to create a Release Candidate.

For the initial Release Candidate on a major release, we will create a maintenance
branch from main.

Follow up Release Candidates will update the maintenance branch by cherry-picking
specific commits.

For the the initial Release Candidate for a minor or a patch release we will create

> a maintenance branch from the previous corresponding release. For example,

Reviewer: Why is a new maintenance branch created instead of just continuing with the existing maintenance branch? There should be no additional commits to that existing maintenance branch than the final previous corresponding release AFAIU

Author: At the moment we could just reuse a single maintenance branch if we update the release scripts and archery to take that into accout. Currently the maintenance branch contains the version number (maint-15.0.0) and all our scripts assume that, that's why we do it. I suppose the only reason to not reuse the branch is if in the future we backport fixes to previous releases and we do minor and patch releases we would want to have separate maintenance branches for those. In example, we want to have a `15.1.0` and `15.0.1`.

BTW what I've done is to describe the process that all our scripts and archery use at the moment.

Reviewer: > BTW what I've done is to describe the process that all our scripts and archery use at the moment.

Yes, certainly! I was just wondering

> I suppose the only reason to not reuse the branch is if in the future we backport fixes to previous releases and we do minor and patch releases we would want to have separate maintenance branches for those. In example, we want to have a `15.1.0` and `15.0.1`.

With the current type of releases we make, I would expect the backport branch to be something like maint-15.0.x (and so you can still create one for maint-15.1.x later if needed)
